---
title: Blog week 1 
layout: post
author: thomas.vranch-ward
permalink: /blog-week-1-/
source-id: 1OR-IhhGzO4YOCGvGqP549WL0aXJ709MAtZrgIXFu2no
published: true
---
This week was the first week of our IT, or rather, 'Computer Science' and so we started a new topic, with a new teacher. 

This term, we are going to be looking deeper into coding. Decoding *and *encoding messages and general phrases. But why do we need to know how to put words into codes?

Well, actually, we use codes everyday. Have you ever bought something online and had to put your bank details into a website? What did you think happened to your bank card number and your pin? It is instantly scrambled in such a way that only the bank can decode it. Once the bank can confirm that the card number and pin correlate to whomever is using it, they can let you go ahead with your purchase. Of course, there aren't people who sit around all day decoding codes, machines do it almost instantaneously.

This isn't a modern feature, it was used thousands of years ago. Julius Caesar needed to sent messages to bases all across Rome; but how would he do it without his scrolls being intercepted and read? At first, he just thought that he was only one of the lucky few who could actually read and so he just wrote the messages normally, however, this form of writing was actually known to many people and so he needed to change his ways; he needed to start encoding his secrets!

How did he code? Well, he would write his scroll normally, but every letter would be replaced with a different letter, a certain amount of letters different in the alphabet. For example, if we were doing a 'two along' code, ‘A’ would become ‘C’ and ‘C’ would become ‘E’. 

Coding is a huge, and very important, factor of life and I can't wait to learn more about it! 

