---
title: Blog week 3
layout: post
author: thomas.vranch-ward
permalink: /blog-week-3/
source-id: 1HDfTM5yO-UQCvWv85DYNsp7UI0VT3auqp-pjWHWZCfk
published: true
---
This week was our third week of Computer Science in year 9, so here is my third blog! I hope that you enjoy it!

This week, we carried on from last week. We used vlookup, again. However, this time, instead of just encoding a word or a phrase, we unscrambled it, as well!

It is VERY important that before doing this, you understand that computers read left to right and downwards; not right to left and upwards. 

Recap from last week: 'vlookup(E3,A:B,2,false)' is the code that you would use so that the letter in ‘E3’ would become whatever ‘E3’ was in ‘A’ and it would change it into whatever was in ‘B’. For example, if you put a ‘D’ in E3, and then put the code above in G3, the computer would search column A until it found D. Then, it would loom in column B to find what correlated to D (Say everything in B was two along from whatever was in A), F, and put F in G3. Get it?

Now, say that you wanted to revert the encoded message back into what it was before… the natural thought would to be instead of putting 'vlookup(E3,A:B,2,false)', to put ‘vlookup(E3,B:A,2,false)’ (Swapping the B and the A), right? It would be the instantaneous thought, however, it’s not correct. If you wanted that, you would have to create a whole new column that's the same as A. Let's call his column, ‘C’. Remember when I told you how the computer reads across a page? Well, this is where that applies.the computer won't read backwards, it can only read normally. That's why, when uncoding, you need to have a whole other column.

Again, this week was really fun! I came over some hard challenges and I can't wait to find out what next week brings!

