---
title: Blog week 2
layout: post
author: thomas.vranch-ward
permalink: /blog-week-2/
source-id: 1LGg8Cmbb8Zd0qDbzniBds57cwc1ZgLqJb5i68fKw-sE
published: true
---
This week, was our second week of Computer Science in year 9. Unfortunately, our teacher, Mr. Tansley, wasn't in school. This meant that for the first section of the lesson, we were supervised by Mr. Keen, who would normally take the other IT class.

In the previous week, we discussed the importance of 'Google sheets'. We talked about how most of us would be using this feature in our later lives, confirmed by two other teachers (Mr. Parker and another member of staff). We also briefly talked about a function in sheets, called, ‘v-lookup’. Following on from our last lesson, this command allows you to change phrases and words into code, and decode them.

How does this work? Well, you have to create two columns of letters; one with the normal alphabet, and one that has the normal alphabet, just two letters along. Make sure that the two columns are actually columns, and not rows! Then, you have to make a phrase or a word in a box. It can be absolutely anything, as long as the letters in it are in the lists! Then, you have to put in a different box the code that 'makes the magic happen'. The command is ‘=vlookup(E3,A:B,2,false)’. 

The 'vlookup' bit makes it search vertically in columns ‘A’ and ‘B’. The ‘2’ and ‘false’ bit just make the code run properly! You will now see a encoded phrase for you to enjoy!

I will now briefly talk about a different function called '=concatenate(E3:O3'. All that it does is combine the different columns from ‘E3’ to ‘O3’. For example, if you put ‘H’, ‘E’, ‘L’, ‘L’ and ‘O’ from the columns you put in the code, you would end up with (in one box) ‘HELLO’.

This was a really fun week and I can't wait to enjoy the next one!

